# Sorting Poems

## Description

Sort the lines of the poem from the input file three times:

* In ascending order, ignoring not English (Russian) alpha and not digit symbols, considering uppercase and lowercase symbols equal;

* In ascending order from the backward (as the lines were reversed), ignoring not English (Russian) alpha and not digit symbols, considering uppercase and lowercase symbols equal;

* To put lines back to the original order.

These three versions of the poem write to the output files.

"English (Russian)" means that you should chose the language of the text. If you chose English, Russian letters are ignored as well as other not English letters, and vice versa.

Sort the files with QuickSort.

My function works only with UTF-16 encoded files with byte order mask in the beginning of the file and the same endianness as the program is.

## Getting Started

### Dependencies

* Windows

* MinGW

* requires a compiler new enough to support string_view

### Installing

* download directories hw02_sorting_poems and unit_tests from https://github.com/Green-Chan/ISP_RAS_programming_course . They should stay the sibling directories (have the same parent directory).

### Building

* Open CMD

* Get to the hw02_sorting_strings directory
```
> cd path\to\the\directory\hw02_sorting_poems
```
> **Note:** If you need to change the drive from C: to D:, type "D:" (without quotes).

* Run mingw32-make
```
> mingw32-make
```
> **Note:** you may need to learn how to add MinGW\bin to the PATH (the Environment Settings section in http://www.mingw.org/wiki/Getting_Started/).

### Running tests

* Run mingw32-make with argument test
```
> mingw32-make test
```

### Running example program that sorts "Romeo and Juliet" and "Eugene Onegin"

* Run mingw32-make with argument run
```
> mingw32-make run
```

### Debugging

To debug the program using GDB:
* Rebuild the program with DEBUG=1
```
> mingw32-make clean
> mingw32-make DEBUG=1
```
* Run program (run_tests or run_sorting) using GDB
 ```
 > gdb run_tests.exe
 ```
 or
 ```
 > gdb run_sorting.exe
 ```

## Documentation

You can find documentation, generated by Doxygen in hw02_sorting_poems\documentation directory. If you have Doxygen and know how to use it, you can generate documentation yourself using Doxyfile in the same directory (hw02_sorting_poems\documentation).

## Authors

Litskevich Karina

Contact me on telegram: [@karkarik](https://t.me/karkarik)
