# Processor

## Description

That is an emulation of some functions of a specific processor. It has a stack and four registers of double-precision floating-point numbers.

Here is a specific assembler language for this processor:

| Registers|
|----------|
| rax      |
| rbx      |
| rcx      |
| rdx      |

| Commands | Meaning |
|----------|---------|
| halt     | end of program  |
| in       | read number from stdin and put on stack |
| out      | take number from stack and write it to stdout |
| add      | take two numbers from stack, sum them and put result on stack |
| sub      | take two numbers from stack, subtract the first taken from the second and put result in stack |
| mul      | take two numbers from stack, multiply them and put result on stack |
| div      | take two numbers from stack, divide the second taken by the first and put result on stack |
| sqrt     | take number from stack and put on stack its square root |
| pop      | take number from stack and put it in specified register, if register is not specified just removes number from stack |
| push     | put on stack a number stored in specified register or specified number |

The command pop could be followed by the name of some register.
The command push must be followed by either the name of some register or a double-precision floating-point number.

In this project assembler, disassembler and processor for this specific assembler language are realized. Assembler assembles a specific
binary code from program in specific assembler language. Disassembler disassembles specific binary code back to specific assembler language.
Processor processes program in specific binary code.

## Getting Started

### Dependencies

* Windows

* MinGW

### Installing

* download directories hw03_unkillable_stack and hw04_processor from https://github.com/Green-Chan/ISP_RAS_programming_course .
  They should stay the sibling directories (have the same parent directory).

### Building

* Open CMD

* Get to the hw04_processor directory
```
> cd path\to\the\directory\hw04_processor
```
> **Note:** If you need to change the drive from C: to D:, type "D:" (without quotes).

* Run mingw32-make
```
> mingw32-make
```
> **Note:** you may need to learn how to add MinGW\bin to the PATH (the Environment Settings section in http://www.mingw.org/wiki/Getting_Started/).

### Running tests

* Run mingw32-make with argument test
```
> mingw32-make test
```
> **Note:** mingw32-make test execute run_tests.exe redirecting input

## Debugging

To debug the program using GDB:
* Rebuild the program with DEBUG=1
```
> mingw32-make clean
> mingw32-make DEBUG=1
```
* Run program using GDB
```
> gdb run_tests.exe
```

## Documentation

You can find documentation, generated by Doxygen in hw04_processor\documentation directory. If you have Doxygen and know how to use it, you can generate documentation yourself using Doxyfile in the same directory hw04_processor\documentation).

## Authors

Litskevich Karina

Contact me on telegram: [@karkarik](https://t.me/karkarik)
