# Unkillable Stack

## Description

That is a stack data structure that has several levels of security:

* DEBUG=0. A usual stack that does not check itself;

* DEBUG=1. Each method checks if stack fields store valid values (size is less or equal capacity, data is not equal NULL if capacity greater than 0, etc.).
If they are not, program prints current stack and asserts. Stack also checks if reserved but not used elements are store poison values (they should on this level).

* DEBUG=2. Stack do checks as when DEBUG=1 and also checks canaries that surround struct stack and the buffer with elements.

* DEBUG=3. Stack do checks as when DEBUG=2 and also checks if the hash of stack is equal to the hash counted the last time the stack has been changed.

That is C code that enable stack to store elements of any type. (All elements in the same stack have the same type, but you can have two or more stacks with different types of elements and you can choose any type.) That is how code could look like if you need an analog of C++ templates in C.

## Getting Started

### Dependencies

* Windows

* MinGW

### Installing

* download directory hw03_unkillable_stack from https://github.com/Green-Chan/ISP_RAS_programming_course .

### Building

* Open CMD

* Get to the hw03_unkillable_stack directory
```
> cd path\to\the\directory\hw03_unkillable_stack
```
> **Note:** If you need to change the drive from C: to D:, type "D:" (without quotes).

* Run mingw32-make
```
> mingw32-make
```
> **Note:** you may need to learn how to add MinGW\bin to the PATH (the Environment Settings section in http://www.mingw.org/wiki/Getting_Started/).

### Running tests

* Run mingw32-make with argument test (DEBUG=0 by default)
```
> mingw32-make test
```

* Run mingw32-make with argument test and DEBUG=<required_level>
```
> mingw32-make test DEBUG=3
```

## Debugging

To debug the program using GDB:
* Rebuild the program with DEBUG=1 (or DEBUG=2, or DEBUG=3)
```
> mingw32-make clean
> mingw32-make DEBUG=1
```
* Run program using GDB
```
> gdb run_tests.exe
```

## Documentation

You can find documentation, generated by Doxygen in hw03_unkillable_stack\documentation directory. If you have Doxygen and know how to use it, you can generate documentation yourself using Doxyfile in the same directory hw03_unkillable_stack\documentation).

## Authors

Litskevich Karina

Contact me on telegram: [@karkarik](https://t.me/karkarik)
